.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH MKBINGRAM 1 LOCAL
.UC 6
.SH NAME
mkbingram - make binary N-gram from two arpa LMs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkbingram 2gram.arpa rev3gram.arpa bingram
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mkbingram
makes a binary N-gram file for Julius from word 2-gram and reverse
word 3-gram LMs in ARPA standard format.  Using the binary file, the
initial startup of Julius becomes much faster.
.PP
Note that the word 2-gram and reverse word 3-gram should be trained in
the same corpus, same parameters (i.e. cut-off thresholds) and have
the same vocabulary.
.PP
.I mkbingram
can read gzipped ARPA file.
.PP
.I mkbingram
that comes with Julius version 3.5 and later can generate more 
size-optimized binary N-gram by using 24bit index instead of 32bit
and 2-gram backoff data compression.  The byte order was also
changed from 3.5 to use the system's native order by default.
.PP
Although the old binary N-gram can be directly read by Julius,
(in that case Julius performs on-line conversion), you can also
update your binary N-gram using
.I mkbingram
using -d option.
.PP
Please note that binary N-gram file converted by mkbingram of version 3.5
and later cannot be read by Julius/Julian 3.4.2 and earlier.
.SH OPTIONS
.Ip "2gram.arpa"
input word 2-gram file in ARPA standard format.
.Ip "rev3gram.arpa"
input reverse word 3-gram in ARPA standard format.
.Ip "-d old_bingram"
input binary N-gram file (for conversion from old format).
.Ip "bingram"
output binary N-gram file.
.SH EXAMPLE
Convert ARPA files to binary format:
.PP
    % mkbingram ARPA_2gram ARPA_rev_3gram outfile
.PP
Convert old binary N-gram file to new format:
.PP
    % mkbingram -d old_bingram new_bingram

.SH USAGE
You can specify the generated binary N-gram file on Julius/Julian using
option "-d".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
julius(1)
.SH VERSION
This version is provided as part of Julius-3.5.1.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 1991-2006 Kawahara Lab., Kyoto University
.br
Copyright (c) 2000-2005 Shikano Lab., Nara Institute of Science and Technology
.br
Copyright (c) 2005-2006 Julius project team, Nagoya Institute of Technology
.SH AUTHORS
LEE Akinobu (Nagoya Institute of Technology, Japan)
.br
contact: julius@kuis.kyoto-u.ac.jp
.SH LICENSE
Same as 
.I Julius.
