.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.TH MKSS 1 LOCAL
.UC 6
.SH NAME
mkss - compute average spectrum from mic input for SS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkss [options..] filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mkss
is a tool for estimating noise spectrum for spectral subtraction on
Julius.  It reads a few seconds of sound data from microphone
input, and saves the average spectrum to a file.  The output file can
be used as a noise spectrum data in
.I Julius
(option "-ssload").
.PP
Output format is RAW (no header), 16bit (signed short, big endian),
monoral.  If the file already exist, it will be overridden.
.SH OPTIONS
.Ip "\-freq threshold"
Sampling frequency (Hz, default=16000)
.Ip "\-len msec"
length to record in milliseconds (default: 3000).
.Ip "\-fsize samplenum"
frame size in number of samples (default: 400).
.Ip "\-fshift samplenum"
frame shift in number of samples (default: 160).
.SH "USAGE"
Start mkss and stay quiet for 3 seconds.  Then the average noise
spectrum will be recorded to the specified file.  When you start
Julius, specify option "-ssload thatfile", and you can use microphone
input with spectral subtraction.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
julius(1)
.SH VERSION
This version is provided as part of Julius-3.5.1.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2002-2006 Kawahara Lab., Kyoto University
.br
Copyright (c) 2002-2005 Shikano Lab., Nara Institute of Science and Technology
.br
Copyright (c) 2005-2006 Julius project team, Nagoya Institute of Technology
.SH AUTHORS
LEE Akinobu (Nagoya Institute of Technology, Japan)
.br
contact: julius@kuis.kyoto-u.ac.jp
.SH LICENSE
Same as 
.I Julius.
